You've waited a long time for this because I've avoided talking about these Dunder magic methods for
a long time.
In this video we're finally going to uncover what they do.
Now we're able to see what our instance has as methods using the door method.
And we told you that these were inherited from our base object class.
Now these underscores our special methods.
Remember how we have things like length for example that allows us to tell the length of an array.
These are actually implemented using these Dunder methods they allow us to use Python specific functions
on objects created through our class so let me show you what I mean we're going to create a new class.
And this is going to be a toy class now.
In here will define a toy and initialize it with self.
Then we'll say that it has color and H now will say color equals to color.
So these will be our attributes
and H awesome.
There's our class.
Now let's say we want to create an action figure this action figure will be instantiated with toy let's
say color of red and the ages.
It's brand new.
So it's 0.
Now if I use something like let's say s t r that comes with this object.
If I do SDR or action figure dot underscore underscore s t are like so and we print this
we see that we get this.
It's the exact same thing as us doing SDR action figure like this
these double underscore Dunder methods are special methods that Python recognizes.
For example the Dunder SDR this special method allows us to use action figure like this using the SDR
built in function as a matter of fact if you go to the Python documentation under the special method
names section you'll see that we can do basic customizations of these Dunder methods and it's a long
list of all these Dunder methods that we can use.
Now don't go and read every single one of them.
There are a lot and you're not going to use them that often.
There's only specific few cases that you're going to use them.
And the idea is to know how to modify them and how they work underneath the hood.
So let's go over a few examples for example let's modify what the as a star does.
I'm going to define my own SDR here I'm going to call self and then in here I'm going to return something
different.
I'm going to return.
Let's say an F string that is let's say self dot color if I run this I get red remember how I said not
to modify Dunder methods.
Well sometimes you're allowed to maybe.
There are cases special cases where you want your class to behave a certain way just like dictionaries
lists topples and all are objects and Python can behave in certain ways.
How lists are where access with an index number and a dictionary was accessed with the key.
Those are all implemented using these standard methods.
And you see here that because we modified this the SDR now returns red when being called on action figure
it doesn't change things other than with an action figure.
If I run this you'll see that it still runs.
Action figure like this because this is a string the SDR is only modified when we use it on this specific
object like so what other neat things can we do.
Well we can change the meaning of the length as well so length I can say self and in here I can just
return
now if I print
length of action figure I click Run I get five very cool.
By the way if this underline is getting a little annoying which frankly for me it's getting a little
bit annoying.
I'm going to click on settings here and just remove the code intelligence so won't tell me when my code
is wrong but hopefully you can just debug it ourselves.
All right.
So there we go.
We've just changed the length Dunder to return five let's keep experimenting.
We can also do something like underscore underscore delete and delete.
Well let's actually use the delete keyword which we actually haven't seen before.
Delete.
We can just say return deleted.
You have to go like this and let's just do print here.
Print deleted.
If I click Run I see that I returned delete it.
Now the delete keyword.
I haven't really touched you because it's not something that you'll see a lot of.
Usually this can cause some funny bugs in our programs that I like to personally avoid.
But the the delete keyword deletes some sort of variable that we might have had in our program.
All right.
What else is there.
Let's change this to use something called call and call is an interesting one.
Let's say that with coal we're going to return and let's say yes.
Question mark the neat thing about coal is that now it gives our toy class some super power.
We can say action figure and then say well with coal we actually can now call the actual object with
these brackets so using coal.
I have this special way to call a function which by the way underneath the hood the way we're able to
call functions is using this Dunder call.
And if I click Run I get.
Yes.
How cool is that.
All right one last one because I think you're starting to get the idea of this.
Like I said these are all available in here.
Usually you don't want to overwrite them but you just want to know that you have the power to do so
if you choose the next one is called get item.
So let's two define get item again.
We're gonna use self at the first parameter and then let's say I for index and in here will return self
dot and let's add an attribute before we add that I'm going to say self.
Dot my dict for my dictionary and then add name equals to yo yo and less to has pets equal to False
now using this I can say my
and return the item based on the index that we give it so let me show you what I mean.
If I now do print action figure dot and in here instead of doing the DOT we do the square brackets just
like we would access perhaps getting a dictionary item we can now using the get item say What properties
do we have.
Name.
So let's say a name and if I print this up I forgot to add a comma in here.
Let's try that again and if I scroll down you can see I'm really good at reading errors.
Name the name action figure is not defined because it's action figure not future that's better.
Look at that.
My name yo yo was being able to access using this bracket notation using the get item Dunder.
Very very cool so these special magic methods are really interesting because it allows us to do some
well some custom modifying of our classes and you can also understand how in Python are built in default
types had access and abilities to have all these special syntax is we now have that power as well.
Let's take a break and do a bit of an exercise.